// CS 122A Fall 2018 Remote Bike Lock Project by Geoffrey Nguyen. Edited December 2018. 

This is a DIY project on how to make a remote bike lock. You will need a few things:

- ATmega1284
- Power source, 5V and 12V
- Adafruit square force-sensing resistor
- Bluetooth Chip HC 05
- TIP102 Transistor
- 12V Solenoid Lock
- Wires, LEDs, Resistors
- WB-106 Breadboard
- Atmel-ICE
- Atmel-ICE Cable
- USB A Male-to-Male Cable
- Small box and tape
- Smartphone, with a Bluetooth terminal installed/

  After you have all these parts, you are ready to make your remote bike lock. First, place your ATmega1284 on your breadboard,
preferrably somewhere where the first pin on the ATmega1284 lines up with the 11th or 21st spot on your breadboard. After doing so, place
a power source on the right side of the breadboard near the top. This will be powering most of the hardware on the board. Then, place 
wires from pin B0 to pin B6 (pins 1 to 7) on the ATmega1284 (the pins starting from the top left and down to the 7th port) and put the other end of those
wires on the right side of the breadboard, below your power source. These wires are going to connect to some LEDs that will measure how
much pressure is placed. Also, connect ports 11 and 31 to ground, ports 10 and 30 to VCC, and port 32 to ground. 

  Once all the wires are placed, connect resistors to each one of those wires and put them to nodes with empty rows. Then, in that same row,
connect LEDs to each resistor and ground them. The long end of the LED should be in parallel to the resistor, while the short end of the 
LED connects to ground. Now you have set up all your LEDs. 

  The next step is to connect your Bluetooth HC 05 chip on your breadboard. Place this on the left side of the breadboard, preferrably 
in the middle. Have the side with the labels that say EN, VCC, GND, etc. facing away fron the microcontroller. Now, assuming that
you have the 6 ports that the Bluetooth chip comes with, wire your circuit exactly as described:

- Top node (EN) leave empty. 
- Second from the top (VCC) connect to 5V.
- Third from the top (GND) connect to ground. 
- Fourth from the top (TXD) connect to pin 14 on the microcontroller. On the microcontroller, this should be the RXD0 pin. 
- Fifth from the top (RXD) connecto to pin 15 on the microcontroller. On the microcontroller, this should be the TXD0 pin.
- Sixth from the bottom (STATE) leave empty.

Turn on your power supply, and open up the Bluetooth terminal on your phone. On your board, you should be seeing your Bluetooth chip 
blinking on and off. If it isn't, then either your power is off, your chip may be damaged, or you may have JTAG turned on your Atmel
studio. Hopefully, you are able to fix and resolve this issue in some way. After, turn on the Bluetooth function on your phone, and
connect to the Bluetooth chip that you just plugged in. Assuming no other Bluetooth devices are around, you should be able to see your 
chip, labelled "HC 05". If it asks for a password of some sort, enter the default pin, which should be 1234, 12345, 0000, or some other 
basic number. 
with your Bluetooth module that you just plugged in. 

Now, connect a wire from port C0 (pin 22) to a node with empty rows, and connect a resistor and LED in series with the wire, just like 
you did with the previous LEDs. You will need to write some code that turns the LED on and OFF using the buttons on your Bluetooth 
terminal. On your terminal (or at least mine), set your buttons to send HEX values, such as 0x00 or 0x01. Due to trust issues, I will 
not post the code here, but I will say that I used USART in my program. Eventually, after tweaking with the code, you will able to 
make the LED turn on and off by sending different hex values through your phone. 

Next, we will wire up our force-sensing resistor. Plug your force-sensing resistor on the left side of the breadboard, toward the top. 
Place some tape on the back of it and tape it against a small box for stability. This will come into play later. Once plugged in, connect
a wire from one of the 2 ports into A0 (port 40), and plug in a 10K ohm resistor in the same row and connect that to ground.
Connect the other port that is unused into VCC (5V). Once done, write some code that takes the values that the force-sensor resistor 
reads and have it output HEX values onto port B. This is where the LEDs connected earlier come to play; they show the range of the 
pressure and should light it based on the readings that the force-sensing resistor gets. Your goal is to put pressure on the force-
sensing resistor and having the LEDs light up sequentially as you apply more pressure. 

Almost done! You have now finished the force-sensing resistor and the Bluetooth chip. Lastly, connect your 12V power source to the 
breadboard, preferrably on the bottom left side. 

******** YOU MUST MAKE SURE THAT THE 12V POWER SOURCE AND THE 5V POWER SOURCE ARE NOT EVER POWERING THE SAME VCC. DO NOT HAVE ALL 
THE VCC PORTS CONNECTED TO EACH OTHER. SEPARATE IT SO THE 12V ONLY POWERS THE SOLENOID, AND THE 5V POWERS EVERYTHING ELSE.*********

Read the above warning if you haven't done so (they can still have common ground). For my project, I simply used a modified power
source regulator, but you can also use a step-down voltage source if you have one. Anyway, plug in your transistor somewhere near your 
12V power source. Have the side with the black part facing away from the board, just as the force sensing resistor did. 
Connect two wires into the 2 ports that the Solenoid lock has attached at the end of its blue and red wire. With the wire that's plugged
into the the port on the red side (this will be voltage), connect that to your power source with VCC, and plug the wire that's connected 
to the blue part to the middle port of the transistor (this is the ground). Place a wire on the same row with the bottom row of the
transistor, and connect the other side of that wire to ground. Remember where that LED was with the Bluetooth module? Remove that 
LED and connect that resistor to the top side of the transistor. Now all your hardware is complete. Assuming that you coded it correctly
also, your whole project should be complete. It's time for the result!



Make a makeshift chain with some cables and attach them to your solenoid lock. Find a wheel or spoke near you, and have the cables 
wrap around the spoke to the chains of your bicycle. Turn on both of your power sources; your 12V power source should be connected to an
outlet. Hold your solenoid lock a few centimeters away from your force-sensing resistor. Grab your phone and on the bluetooth terminal,
press the button that you use to unlock your phone. Your solenoid lock should unlock, and after a few seconds it should retract back into
the force sensing resistor. In turn, your resistor should detect this pressure and have the LEDs light up, depending on what your range
is. When you hit the button to unlock on your phone, the Solenoid should retract, and your bike should be free to move. When you want
to lock it, hit the LOCK button and the Solenoid should keep the chain in place, preventing one from riding the bike. You're done! 
Have fun with your remote bike lock! (Remember, it's only a prototype and you can build from it!)
